---
layout: post
title: "time, what is it good for and approaches to using it"
date: 2019-09-15
---

It has been a few months since taking - fortunately - an internal time management course, and recently a relative was exploring improving their own time management and asked about relevant tools.

This post covers a little history and my current personal regime for time management kick started by the course. Question will be if it sticks! :D

## once upon a time

Historically have tried a number of time management tools of the electronic kind only to find one or more of:
- they are cumbersome to update/maintain
- don't inspire use
- likely my own "i'm over it" after a short period of time (pun intended)
- < insert-excuse-here >.

So, fortunately - at least for the past few months - have found a set of tools and processes care of a recent internal time management course - shout out to the organizers!

## capturing and managing tasks

[trello.com](https://trello.com)
This easy to use browser based interface allows organization of tasks in lists on boards. If you know what a kanban board is, similar concept. This tool is useful to me because

- create accounts for work and personal use
	- same tool, noice..
- boards for various areas
	- on the personal account have two boards: me and us
- multiple lists on each board
	- on a work board have lists for
		- ideas
		- queue
			- no priority
		- must do2
			- not as important as the next list
		- must do
		- regular
			- e.g.: check email for 25 minutes, planning
		- today - morn
			- populated in the morning/day before
		- today - arvo
			- populated in the morning/day before
		- done
			- the best list of all!
	- tasks are then added to the appropriate lists

A simple, yet powerful feature for me is the ability to drag and drop tasks. Almost seems stupid typing that out, however it is used constantly to pick tasks to add to the today lists, and re-organize as priorities change.

[https://to-do.office.com](https://to-do.office.com)

Turns out email is still a thing(tm). Beyond labeling emails - reading material, associate to project, auto rule filtering or a shortcut key to move vendor related to a folder, any further management doesn't appear to be a useful endeavor.... 

Except for those emails that require an action aka task. Rather than create a task for each one, just add a follow-up and it appears on the to-do page office page.  Then there is *one* task on the regular list in trello to (re-)schedule a review of the to-do list and act accordingly. 

## do you know what you did last week?

[https://toggl.com](https://to-do.office.com)

Partially out of curiosity and partially out of reassurance that achievements are being made, a way to track tasks is a good thing(tm) for me. Fortunately, do not need to track every second and important not to get into a routine of making sure every second is counted for - i.e.: wasting time, tracking time!

Trello mentioned earlier has integration with toggl.  Open a task in trello and click start and a stop watch starts in toggl with that task name. Sometimes tasks are entered directly into toggl to start now, record an earlier task or return to a task.

Weekly a report is sent and/or a BI-ish - graphs+numbers - report is available to see what you spent time on based upon user defined projects. 

## process

One conscious time management modification is to explicitly make time for planning how time is spent. This is a task in trello and usually sits in the *morn*-ing list. When I'm not sidetracked by the latest shiny thing first thing in the morning  - task, pet project, ... -  open the *planning* task in trello, hit the toggl start button and navigate around trello board to review/update/add tasks with the end-goal to have placed a set of tasks into the *morn* and *arvo* boards. Then hit stop either in trello or toggl for the planning task and get going on the planned out day, well.... usually!

One feature of trello that has been useful is the checklist inside a task - which is easy to reorder and useful to 
- give some thought to a logical path for the task
- avoid procrastination by breaking up a task into smaller "do-now-able" chunks
- break up chunky tasks
- help focus
- see progress by checking sub-tasks off!

One of the *regular* list tasks is checking email for 25 minutes which came from the [Pomodoro Technique](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique) of time boxing tasks. While it isn't always 25 minutes, having a timer running - for this or any task - in toggl helps to be cognizant that time is ticking away.

Another goodie that can he applied when planning the day is the idea of when, which is a book by [Dan Pink](https://www.danpink.com/)  on being aware of when you are best suited to certain tasks and planning accordingly. For me the morning or night are good project/deep thought/deep dive times.

## security and the rest

Both Trello and Toggle provide free tier functionality - which is the current mode used and means to me

- don't store any confidential information
- the service(s) could go away at any time
- consider signing up at some point to support the platforms.
	

## wrap it up

The time management course and the tools, processes mentioned here-in have noticeably helped me to be more focused or at worst be more aware when I'm off focus! The task of organizing/planning each day is actually enjoyable - partially due to the organized environment it provides. It certainly is not perfect, planning, tracking does not always happen however so far have always come back to it. So it is sticking for now.


This post is my own fault, no payment/reward/request involved from any of the platforms mentioned.
